Being a huge Harry Potter fan, when I think of modern feminism, my mind goes to Emma Watson. Watson first came to light as a feminist from her UN speech in 2014 where she talked about global gender inequality. This speech was particularly important to modern day feminism because Watson made the audience very clear that feminism, although the word is derived from feminine, is not just women’s podium. Watson invited men to join women in the fight for equality which I think is often times forgotten in the feminist hatred and slurs that conquer most discourse on the subject. In Doing Feminist Theory, author … includes a page titled, ‘What is Feminism?’. This page includes quotes from previous feminist in an attempt to define the word. I noticed that in all the quotes men are so often not talked about and left out of the picture. I like the modern view on feminism as opposed to the original view of equality of the sexes. Updating this definition is essential to getting people to join the movement regardless of gender, which Watson does a phenomenal job of.

A lot of feminism, as Mann depicts, is a “’do-it-yourself’ approach…” (Mann, 3). This grab bag approach to feminism has its ups and downs but looking at the issue from Watson’s perspective sheds some negative light on the topic. With this simple ‘everyone can be a feminist’ idea, the population is often diluted with people who don’t do anything for the cause. Watson pushes this idea out the window with her feminism by taking action unrelated to what the media or other people think. Watson says, “Fine. Call me a ‘diva,’ call me a ‘feminazi,’ call me ‘difficult,’ call me a ‘First World feminist,’ call me whatever you want, it’s not going to stop me from trying to do the right thing and make sure that the right thing happens.” Her perspective is backed up by her actions, too. She started a feminist book club, plays roles in movies that defy the stereotypical woman, and has taken time off from her job to personally learn about the issues of gender inequality across the globe.
