Feminism is a way of life in which all life is valued and respected despite conflict and disagreement. I consider life to not just include humans but also animals and nature. Holding values of accountability and knowing yourself are key to feminism because you can’t encourage people to be themselves if you don’t truly know yourself. If someone were to ask me to quickly define feminism, although there is no short answer, I would say balancing minorities with majorities. Feminism is a lot more colorful than just men and women, all minorities are included in our scope. Even saying that leaves issues like masculinity out because men are considered a majority, so I define feminism that way because it’s the most inclusive. I’ve never come across a definition of feminism that I felt has truly encompassed all that we aim to complete. I identify as a feminist because it’s the one label I’m proud to wear. I don’t like labeling myself or affiliating with specific groups because I believe its closeminded, but feminism is so diverse that I feel it’s the one label that has no definition, regardless of stereotypes.

As a junior, I expect this year and my next to be the two most difficult, but from what I’ve seen myself accomplish, every struggle I face highlights a strength. My job as a mentor in the learning community will allow me to meet so many new types of people as well as my RA job. I feel like I will have a bigger understanding for small groups that are often overlooked, allowing me to be less biased and more diverse. I can (hopefully) expect to succeed academically and in my jobs. I want to impress myself and the others around me and become something bigger than I’ve ever expected. I know that will require a ton of work but I’m willing to balance all aspects of my life to make this year work out!
