1. The quote I found most interesting from the ‘Still Manifesting Feminism’ chapter is, “They wondered if they were ‘allowed’ to be feminists – and challenged us to ponder that, too.” This quote summarizes something that every feminist struggles with accepting and teaching, which is why it stood out to me. The paragraph before this quote discussed some mistakes the authors had been criticized for including the limiting discussions on trans issues and how limited the authors perspectives were on the subject. The authors abilities to notice their mistakes and over sights is something that always comes with feminism. It’s incredibly difficult to include all minorities into the discussion all the time, that sometimes groups are left out. Realizing mistakes is one of the first steps to becoming a feminist, and I love the authors for addressing that.

2. After reading the introductions of both authors, I relate to author Jennifer more. First, Jennifer’s family life is more similar to mine which I think has something to do without similarities. Jennifer also has a very personal opinion on abortion stances because of her experience with her sister’s abortion. I also hold very strong opinions about abortion and similar feelings, like the disgust of judgement and pride for helping someone. Jennifer also implies in most of her arguments that there is a strong form of patriarchy influencing these events, which resonates with me too. I also think about factors that could be persuading an argument and the back story behind people that make them a certain way.

3. A truly interesting point from ‘A Day Without Feminism’ is the gendered help wanted signs. It’s so interesting reading about these awkward injustices that aren’t often recognized. I knew that women were predominately hired for positions like secretary, teacher, and domestic workers, but I didn’t know signs were gendered. I assumed that women and men both knew what jobs were for them, but the authors made the great point that if you were a female lawyer, you’d have to search the help wanted male ads in order to get a job. I also like how they keep the idea going in the whole chapter that we are living in 1970. This isn’t often observed by third wave feminists who have never experienced this forced lifestyle.

4. &nbsp;

  a. Sappho- In the chapter, they say this person would be a dinner guest to ‘the dinner party’, but I had no idea who they were. Sappho is a Greek lyric poet often referred to as the tenth muse. She is highly regarded for her poetry and writings, 650 of which still survive today.

  b. Me’shell Ndege’ocello- she’s an American singer-songwriter known for sparking the neo-soul movement. Her birth name is Michelle Lynn Johnson, and the name above is her stage name, taken later in her career.

  c. Susan Brownmiller- An American feminist journalist best known for her book Against Our Will, which is known as one of the 100 most important novels of the twentieth century. The book discusses that men have previously defined rape and the issues involved with said definitions.

  d. Radclyffe Hall- An English poet and author born in 1880 who wrote the groundbreaking lesbian novel, The Well of Loneliness.
